NEXT-12775  [NEW] Administration: Add mixins (#129)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/administration/add-mixins.md

# Adding Mixins

> 

Reviewer: `Overview` heading missing

> 

Author: ```suggestion

#Overview
```

This documentation chapter will cover how to add a new administration Mixin for your plugin.

> Mixins behave generally the same as they do normally in Vue, just the registration and how mixins are included in a component is different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, mixins behave the same as they do in Vue normally, differing only in the registration and the way mixins are included in a component.
```

## Prerequisites

All you need for this guide is a running Shopware 6 instance and full access to both the files and a running plugin. Of course you'll have to understand JavaScript, but that's a prerequisite for Shopware as a whole and will not be taught as part of this documentation. As stated before mixins in Shopware are basically the same as in Vue so you should have read their [documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/mixins.html) on them first. 

## Register a new service

For this example, we'll just use the example mixin from the [VueJS documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/mixins.html) and adjust it to be used in Shopware.

> Mixins in Shopware have to be registered in the mixin registry via the `Mixin.register` function to available everywhere in the administration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixins in Shopware have to be registered in the mixin registry via the `Mixin.register` function to be available everywhere in the administration.
```

> Converting the Vue mixin to be used in Shopware and looks like the example seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Converting the Vue mixin to be used in Shopware looks like the example seen below:
```

> {% code title="<administration root>/mixins/swag-basic-example.js" %}

Reviewer: Please emphasize the changes you did, e.g. via comment (if there aren't that many)

Author: Well, there are no real changes, they used an intermediary variable and i'm directly feeding the mixin into the register function

Reviewer: Ok, some comments won't hurt then. 👍

```javascript
const { Mixin } = Shopware;

Mixin.register('swag-basic-mixin', {
    created: function () {
        this.hello()
    },
    methods: {
        hello: function () {
            console.log('hello from mixin!')
        }
    }
});
```
{% endcode %}s

> ## Importing the Mixin it the Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Importing the mixin in the Plugin
```

> Now that we have registered the mixin, we have to import it at the top of our `main.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have registered the mixin, we need to import it at the top of our `main.js` file.
```

```javascript
{% code title="<administration root>/src/main.js"%}
import '<administration root>/mixins/swag-basic-example.js'
{% endcode %}
```

## Using the Mixin

> Now that we have registered our mixin under a name, we can get it form the registry with the `Mixin.getByName` function and inject into our component as seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After registering our mixin under a name, we can get it form the registry with the `Mixin.getByName` function and inject it into our component as seen below.
```

{% code title="<administration root>/components/swag-basic-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
const { Component, Mixin } = Shopware;

Component.register('swag-basic-example', {

    mixins: [
        Mixin.getByName('swag-basic-mixin')
    ],
});
```
{% endcode %}

## Next steps

> Now that we have created a mixin, you might want to create or customize a administration component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you learned to created a mixin, you might want to create or customize a administration component:
```

* [Creating a new administration component](./add-custom-component.md)
* [Extending an existing administration component](./customizing-components.md)

> Or you might want to add your own service to the administration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another possibility is adding your own service to the administration:
```

Author: It would like to leave this as is, because adding services dosn't really have anything to do with the other 2 points above

Reviewer: I don't like the `Or` in the beginning. Let's search for an alternative then, e.g 
```It may also be that you want to add...```

Reviewer 2: Then maybe a compromise would be:

```suggestion
If you however want to add your own service to the administration:
```

Author: I think that is great

## Register a new service

For this example, we'll just use the example mixin from the [VueJS documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/mixins.html) and adjust it to be used in Shopware.

Mixins in Shopware have to be registered in the mixin registry via the `Mixin.register` function to be available everywhere in the administration.

Converting the Vue mixin to be used in Shopware looks like the example seen below:

{% code title="<administration root>/mixins/swag-basic-example.js" %}
```javascript
const { Mixin } = Shopware;

Mixin.register('swag-basic-mixin', {
    created: function () {
        this.hello()
    },
    methods: {
        hello: function () {
            console.log('hello from mixin!')
        }
    }
});
```
{% endcode %}s

## Importing the mixin in the Plugin

Now that we have registered the mixin, we need to import it at the top of our `main.js` file.

```javascript
{% code title="<administration root>/src/main.js"%}
import '<administration root>/mixins/swag-basic-example.js'
{% endcode %}
```

## Using the Mixin

> After registering our mixin under a name, we can get it form the registry with the `Mixin.getByName` function and inject it into our component as seen below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After registering our mixin under a name, we can get it from the registry with the `Mixin.getByName` function and inject it into our component as seen below.
```

{% code title="<administration root>/components/swag-basic-example/index.js" %}
```javascript
const { Component, Mixin } = Shopware;

Component.register('swag-basic-example', {

    mixins: [
        Mixin.getByName('swag-basic-mixin')
    ],
});
```
{% endcode %}

## Next steps

> Now that you learned to created a mixin, you might want to create or customize a administration component:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you learned how to created a mixin, you might want to create or customize an administration component:
```
